# Que 1: How many tables are there in iptables?

**There are 5 tables in iptables.**

1. `Filter Table` : This  is the default table (if no -t option is passed). It contains the built-in chains INPUT (for packets destined to local sockets), FORWARD (for packets being routed through the box), and OUTPUT (for locally-generated packets).

2. `NAT table` : This table is consulted when a packet that creates a new connection is encountered.  It consists of four  built-ins:
    - **PREROUTING** for  altering  packets as soon as they come in
    - **INPUT** for altering packets destined for local sockets
    - **OUTPUT** for altering locally-generated packets before routing
    - **POSTROUTING** for altering packets as they are about to go out

3. `Mangle Table` : This table is used for specialized packet alteration.

4. `Raw Table` : This table is used mainly for configuring exemptions from connection tracking in combination with the NOTRACK target. It registers at the netfilter hooks with higher priority and is thus called before ip_conntrack, or any other IP tables. It provides the following built-in chains:
    - **PREROUTING** for packets arriving via any network interface
    - **OUTPUT**  for packets generated by local processes

5. `Security Table` : This  table is used for Mandatory Access Control (MAC) networking rules, such as those enabled by the SECMARK and CONNSECMARK targets.  Mandatory Access Control is implemented by Linux Security Modules such as SELinux.  The security  table  is called  after  the  filter table, allowing any Discretionary Access Control (DAC) rules in the filter table to take effect before MAC rules.
